I'm paged a third-year student at the
University of Cambridge
I studied physical Natural Sciences and
I'm specializing in astrophysics this
year this video documents a day in my
life at the end of Michaelmas term I
think it captures my student lifestyle
really well and also it's very festive
so enjoy I kick started the day with an
early morning run along the river this
is my way of keeping active whilst at
uni I like to run in the mornings
because it gets me out of bed and to be
honest I just don't have time later in
the day I'm not that great at running my
fitness and stamina are both quite bad
but at least I'm putting in a good
pattern the river is usually busy in the
mornings with foolish crews going out on
growing outings it's a good distraction
whilst you're running along on cold
winters mornings my runs are normally
twenty to thirty minutes long then I
head back to my room have lots of water
and recover I am always very pleased
with myself though for actually doing
exercise a quick change of footwear is
then necessary before heading down to
the kitchen I share the kitchen with ten
housemates
and we each have a cupboard to keep all
our stuff for breakfast I usually go for
a bowl of cereal and a glass of orange
juice as you can see the fridge is
normally quite packed it's always a bit
of a squeeze fitting in ten pieces food
usually at least one of my friends gets
up at the same time as me and has
breakfast with me this day was the
exception and no one else was around
sadly but it is normally a very social
household our kitchen also has motion
sensor lights and so they did go off
halfway through my breakfast but I
couldn't be bothered to get up and turn
them back on again
peak laziness I know when I'd finished
eating I went to wash up my bowl these
washing up gadgets are the best creation
ever a scholar that dispensed is washing
up liquid at the same time what more
could you want after the excitement of
washing up I usually fill up my water
bottle for the day by half 8 it was time
to get going so I went to my room to
brush my teeth although I don't have an
unsweet I do have a sink in my room
which is very handy then I needed to go
have a shower but the bathroom was
occupied so I spent five minutes or so
just tidying up my room it had got a bit
messy over the previous few days and it
was just stressing me out seeing it in
that state it's our own responsibility
to keep our rooms tidy and clean
[Music]
eventually the bathroom was free for me
to use so here I am with my basket of
shower gels and shampoos and my towel
not even joking my warm shower is often
the highlight of my day
one ten minute shower later I headed
back to my room I whipped out the
hairdryer because I have such thick hair
and it takes ages to dry naturally to be
honest it takes ages to dry with a
hairdryer too which is not ideal when
I've got limited time before lectures
with my blow-dried hair I went to go
pick out some clothing for the day
nothing too fancy I'm a student who
doesn't have much time to think out
their outfits more often than not I go
for jeans and a slightly tired looking
t-shirt this is the not so glamorous
side of a student lifestyle when I
haven't had time to straighten my hair I
prefer to tie it back so it's out of my
face and of course I apply some lip balm
which I carry around with me throughout
the day what an essential
at this point it was definitely time to
open my blind and let some sunlight into
the room I have to climb on my desk to
open my window every day because I'm too
short what a struggle here I'm packing
my bag for the day putting in the
necessary lecture no it's my laptop my
water my purse
I don't have time to come home between
lectures and I'm often out the house for
the majority of the day so it's
important that I don't forget anything
once my bag is packed I run around
trying to find my coat my shoes my bike
helmet my bike keys my bike light
there's lots to remember
I aim to leave the house about 15
minutes before my lecture is due to
start my first lecture of the day is
always held at the Institute of
astronomy which I cycle out to it's a
slightly uphill cycle ride so I still
maintain that it's good exercise I
arrived at the Institute of astronomy a
couple of minutes late for my lecture
but it's fine
I quickly look to my bike up and walked
inside get that speed walk on on arrival
at the lecture theatre my lecturer
greeted me personally and offered me a
mince pie I definitely didn't deserve
that after being three minutes late the
asteroid Department is so friendly this
was the last lecture of the series on
stellar structure and evolution in these
lectures I prefer to sit and listen and
focus on absorbing information rather
than taking loads of notes just because
the lecturer supplies notes which are
very comprehensive already fun fact I
always put my jumper on about two-thirds
of the way through the lecture every
week it seems I get cold at predictable
times when our first lecture is finished
we all head out into the department for
yeat for our coffee break this is a
daily thing arranged by the department
and we can all grab tea coffee and
biscuits and have a quick chat what
usually happens is we spend too long
drinking our coffees and hanging around
the asteroid apartment and don't leave
enough time to get to our next lecture
my second lecture of the day is held in
the maths Department which is about a
five minute cycle from the Institute of
astronomy I would honestly be lost
without my bike I use it multiple
today to get between departments here
I'm entering the central core of the CMS
which is the center of the mathematical
sciences
it is rather a busy hub throughout the
day filled with math students my lecture
theatre is down in the basement of the
building
astrophysics students like myself visit
the maths Department for a lecture
course on the principles of quantum
mechanics for this lecture course I take
a lot of notes the lecturer makes good
use of the blackboard and I find it
useful to jot down the derivations as he
writes them we are also supplied with
online typed up notes for this course
but I find that they're very dense and
hard to revise for it probably goes
without saying that this course is my
most mathematically rigorous yet but I'm
also really enjoying it the lecture
lasted one hour and then I headed off to
grab lunch there's a cafe at the maths
Department where I often buy lunch the
food's good and it saves time cycling to
and from my house I opted for a chicken
caesar wrap on this day whilst I ate I
looked over my diary and made sure I
remembered all the commitments I'd got
coming up later in the day and in the
week I tried to keep my lunch break
short normally half an hour max purely
because I find I'm most productive
during the middle of the day and it
means I can take more of the evening off
I only had one more time tabled
commitment for the day which was a
lecture at 2:30 this meant I had about
two hours to get on with my own work
this is the maths Department library one
of my favourite places to study it's
always so quiet and there's so much room
to spread out your work here I'm
reviewing some lecture notes from my
stellar structure and evolution course
this involved a lot of highlighting
annotating making flashcards and
googling things when I needed more
clarification this lecture course in
particular contains a lot of new content
that I haven't come across in my second
or first years at uni so it's been very
necessary to put some extra time into it
ten minutes before my third and final
lecture was due to start I headed back
up to my bike this course was on stellar
dynamics and the structure of galaxies
and lectures are held at the Institute
of astronomy again this lecture was the
last in the series since it was the end
of term so it actually finished slightly
early I was now free to go home with all
my contact hours finished for turn a
short cycle arrive later which did feel
a bit like cycling through a chiller I
arrived back in my room I was actually
quite tired at this point and since I
didn't have any pressing work to do I
decided to take a nap don't judge me
guys sometimes the student lifestyle is
exhausting I think getting up at the
crack of dawn for an early morning run
might also have had something to do with
it anyways I set my alarm for five
o'clock five 5:30 I was up re-energized
ready to get going again in the evening
I was going to a Christmas formal with
all my friends the Coolidge runs these
every year and they're a great time to
get festive but I needed to go to
sayings for his first to buy some wine
to go with my meal while I was there I
also decided I might as well do my
weekly grocery shop luckily Sainsbury's
is only just around the corner from
Coolidge so it was a quick trip after my
trip to Sainsbury's I uploaded the food
I bought into my fridge and the cupboard
then it was a race to get ready for
formal watch me do my makeup in
record-breaking time somehow I needed to
make myself look party-ready I
straightened my hair put on my velvet
dress and here's my attempt at looking
glam Christmas formal dinners are the
most popular of the year the tickets for
them sell out in seconds everyone's in
high spirits is it's the end of term
this starter was followed by a turkey
dinner and then Christmas pudding for
dessert
and then at the end of the meal the
headquarter leads the whole whole in
singing some Christmas songs each table
is given their own line to sing in the
twelve days of Christmas and even the
master and Fellows of the colors were up
for joining in with the singing this
year the atmosphere was just so good
after dinner the original plan was to go
on a night out so here we are in the
queue to Cindy's a club in Cambridge
however the queue was long and clearly
we weren't that committed to the night
out a group of us decided to leave the
queue and just walk back we stopped off
at the van of Life a popular fast food
van because obviously cheesy chips were
necessary after having a three-course
Christmas meal looking back I'm
impressed by my appetite I spent a while
chatting to my friends in our kitchen
before heading up to bed look the time
was past midnight that's a wild enough
night for me here I'm taking my makeup
off and brushing my teeth and that's the
end of the day thank you for watching
give the video a like if you want to see
more videos like this in the future
subscribe follow me on Instagram and
have a good Christmas
[Music]